---
title: 'Nvidia GTC 2021'
abstract: 'My experience during the Nvidia GTC 2021 conference'
created: '2021-04-12'
tags:
- AI
- Event
---

The Nvidia GPU Technology Conference (or GTC for short) is a big, yearly event to showcase what Nvidia has been working on.
What's awesome about Nvidia GTC is that they have a presentation for everyone, it doesn't matter if you are into AI, data centers, video game development or security, they have a session prepared for you.
After looking around for things to do during my spring break I decided to watch a few GTC sessions to see what was going on and I was completely blown away by what I saw, both in my own genre (security) and other genres.
I do want to note that some sessions require quite a lot of knowledge about computing and the sector they are about, for example even in some security talks I was completely lost on what the presenter said due to me lacking the knowledge required.

## Talks I joined
I tried to join a variety of talks over the first week and I tried to branch out to sectors that I was interested in but had very little knowledge on such as AI and automated vehicles.
If you are planning on joining next years GTC I would recommend you to do the same, even if 90% of the information flies over your head you can still learn from that 10% you do understand, and hey maybe you'll get a new interest out of it (I sure got more interested in AI).

&nbsp;
* Keynote
* A vision for the Next Decade of Computing
* A future with Self-Driving vehicles
* Accelerated 5G Security: DPU-Based Acceleration of Next-Generation Firewalls
* Understanding Safety and Security Standards for Autonomous Vehicles: an NVIDIA DRIVE Approach
* Accelerated Cybersecurity Inferencing at Scale
* How Rimac Accelerated the Design of the World's Fastest Electric Car
* Modern Artificial Intelligence 1980s-2021 and Beyond
* Cyber Security and Performance Analysis for Virtualized and Bare-Metal Cloud Infrastructure
* Reimagining Fraud Detection through Collaborative Multi-Party GPU Computing
* Tracking Players at the Edge: A System Overview

## My impressions
I enjoyed all of these talks even though a lot of details flew over my head.
All of the talks were great but I'd say that **Modern Artificial Intelligence 1980s-2021 and Beyond** was one of the highlights for me.
It's incredible how much passion was put into the talk and a great example of somebody who truly enjoys what he is talking about.

As you can see I joined quite a few self-driving vehicle talks and I definitely enjoyed them, even if I don't fully understand them.
Finally seeing somebody talking about some security issues and how they are being handled is incredible and seeing how self-driving vehicles went from a crazy idea to reality is just insane to me.

The last subset of talks were mostly security related and I absolutely loved them, it's cool to see people taking on problems and being able to dissect how exactly they came to the conclusions they did.
I can't say much more than that since this was the one field I knew most about, if you are into security I would recommend the talks I joined a lot.
If you aren't into security they're a bit harder to sell as you might not understand what's going on at all (because most of what was being said even flew over my head at times).

## Conclusion
I loved my time at the event and am definitely excited to join the event again next year.
Seeing the incredible advancements made over the years is truly a sight to behold and makes me appreciate the entire IT sector even more than I already do.
I'm very happy to have joined some talks I wouldn't usually join because they definitely broadened my interests and made me more knowledgeable about what is going on in other fields.
If you're into IT, whether that is as a student or as an employee I urge you to join next years event, you have my word that you won't regret it.